No. 515.
NOVEL-READING.

Few persons suspect how many novels are written, and
printed, and sold. There are about five thousand five hun-
dred offered for sale in this country. If a man were to
read one a week for seventy-five years, he would not be
through the list. There are, of course many novel-readers.
Something on a great scale will be the result. What will
it be; good or evil? Let us see.

It is natural to inquire, Who write novels? A few pious
persons have written works which are sometimes called
novels. But they are too serious for the gay, and too gay
for the serious. So they are seldom read. Others are writ-
ten by moral persons, who really seem anxious to teach
some truth in an easy way. But nearly or quite all such
are thought dull, and so they lie, covered with dust on the
shelves of the bookseller, are sent to auction, and used as
waste paper. The popular novels of our day are, to a great
extent, written by men who are known to be lax in prin-
ciple, and loose in life. England and France contain no
men who are more free from the restraints of sound moral-
ity, than their leading novelists. They are literal and
“literary debauchees.”

But do not novels contain many good things which can-
not be learned elsewhere? I answer, they do not. It is
confessed that they never teach science. It is no less true,
that they pervert history, or supplant it by fiction. This
is throughout true of Walter Scott, who has excelled all
modern novelists in the charms of style. The literature
of novels is commonly poor, and that of the best cannot
compare with the standard English and French classics.
Even Scott’s best tales are intended to ridicule the best men,
and to excuse or extol the worst men of their age. Like
Hume, he was an apologist of tyrants, whose crimes ought
to have taken away both their crowns and their lives. I
beseech you not to read novels. I will give my reasons.

1. Their general tendency is to evil. They present vice
and virtue in false colors. They dress up vice in gayety,
mirth, and long success. They put virtue and piety in some
odious or ridiculous posture. Suspicion, jealousy, pride,

VOL. XII.               33

