2 NOVEL-READING.

revenge, vanity, rivalries, resistance of the laws, rebellion
against parents, theft, murder, suicide, and even piracy are
so represented in novels as to diminish, if not to take away
the horror which all the virtuous feel against these sins and
crimes. Almost all that is shocking in vice is combined with
some noble quality, so as to make the hero on the whole an
attractive character. The thief, the pirate, and especially the
rake, are often presented as successful, elegant, and happy.
Novels abound in immodest and profane allusions or expres-
sions. Wantonness, pride, anger, and unholy love, are the
elements of most of them. They are full of exaggerations of
men and things. They fill the mind with false estimates of
human life. In them the romantic prevails over the real. A
book of this sort is very dangerous to the young, for in them
the imagination is already too powerful for the judgment.
	2. Novels beget a vain turn of mind. So true is this,
that not one in a hundred of novel-readers is suspected, or is
willing to be suspected of being devout. Who by reading
a novel of the present day was ever inclined to prayer or
praise? Novel-reading is most unhappy in its effects on the
female mind. It so unfits it for devotion, that even in the
house of God levity or tedium commonly rules it. Thus
practical atheism is engendered. The duties of life are seri-
ous and weighty. They whose trade it is to trifle and to
nourish vanity, cannot be expected to be well-informed, or
well-disposed respecting serious things. However much
novel-readers may weep over fictitious misery, it is found
that they generally have little or no sympathy with real suffer-
ing. Did you never know a mother to send away a sick child,
or a daughter to neglect a sick mother, for the purpose of
finishing a novel? If irreligion and impiety do not flourish
under such influences, effects cannot be traced to causes.
	3. The price of these books is often low, yet the cost of
them in a lifetime is very great. Miss W- borrowed some
books, yet she paid seventy dollars in one year for novels
alone. Doing this for fifteen years, she would spend one
thousand and fifty dollars. Yet her nephews and nieces were
growing up without an education. Mrs. L- stinted her
family in groceries, that she might have a new novel every
month. Mr. C- pleaded want of means to aid the orphan
asylum, yet he paid more than sixty dollars a year for novels
for his daughters. Novels have, in the last five years, cost