NOVEL-READING. 3

the people of the United States from twelve to fifteen millions
of dollars. For one they have paid thirty thousand dollars.
This waste is wanton. No good is received in return.
	4. Novel-reading is a great waste of time—time,
		That stuff that life is made of,
		And which, when lost, is never lost alone,
		Because it carries souls upon its wings.

Nothing is so valuable as that which is of great use, yet
cannot be bought with any thing else. We must have time
to think calmly and maturely of a thousand things, to im-
prove our minds, to acquire the knowledge of God, and to
perform many pressing duties. The business of life is to
act well our part here, and prepare for that solemn exchange
of worlds which awaits us. He whose time is spent with-
out economy and wasted on trifles, will awake and find
himself undone, and will “mourn at the last, when his
flesh and his body are consumed, and say, How have I
hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof.”
	5. The effects of novel-reading on morals are disastrous.
Many young offenders are made so by the wretched tales
which now abound. In one city, in less than three months,
three youths were convicted of crimes committed in imi-
tation of the hero of a novel. Here is a court of justice in
session. Blood has been shed. Men are on trial for their
lives. All the parties involved are intelligent and wealthy.
The community is excited. Crowds throng the court-room
from day to day. The papers are filled with the letters
which led to the tragical end of one, and the misery of many.
The whole scene is painful in the highest degree. Among
the witnesses is one of manly form, polished manners, and
hoary locks. Even the stranger does him reverence. His
country has honored him. He must testify, and so sure
as he does he will tell the truth; for he has honor, and
blood is concerned. He says, The husband of my daughter
was “kind, honorable, and affectionate,” and “if my daugh-
ter has been in an unhappy state of mind, I attribute it to
the impure works of Eugene Sue and Bulwer.” All these
cases have been judicially investigated and published to
the world. They have filled many a virtuous mind with
horror, and every judicious parent with concern.
	Nor is novel-reading a wholesome recreation. It is not