4 NOVEL-READING.

a recreation at all, It is an ensnaring and engrossing occu-
pation. Once begin a novel, and husband, children, prayer,
filial duties are esteemed trifles until it is finished. The end
of the story is the charm. Who reads a novel a second time?
	Some say, Others do it, and so may we. But others are
no law to us. The prevalence of an evil renders it the
more binding on us to resist the current.
	Novel-reading makes none wiser or better, or happier.
In life it helps none. In death it soothes none, but fills
many with poignant regrets. At the bar of God, no man
will doubt that madness was in his heart, when he could
thus kill time and vitiate his principles. I add,
	1. Parents, know what books your children read. If
there were not a novel on earth, you still should select their
reading. Leave not such a matter to chance, to giddiness,
or vice. Give your children good books. A bad book is
poison. If you love misery, furnish novels to your children.
	2. Young people, be warned in time. Many, as unsus-
pecting as you, have been ruined. Be not rebellious to your
own undoing. Listen to the voice of kindness, which says,
Beware, beware of novels.
	3. Pastors, see that you do all in your power to break up
a practice which will ruin your young people, and render
your ministry fruitless. I was shocked when I heard of one
of you recommending a novel which exposed the arts of the
Jesuits. The Jesuits are indeed bad, but not worse than Sue.
	4. Booksellers, let me say a word. A young man, with
a hurried manner, entered a druggist’s shop and asked for
an ounce of laudanum. It was refused. He went to an-
other and got it, and next morning was a corpse. Which
of these druggists acted right? You sell poison when you
sell novels. They kill souls. You sell for gain. “Woe to
him that coveteth an evil covetousness to his house, that
he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from
the power of evil! Thou hast consulted shame to thy
house by cutting off many people, and hast sinned against
thy soul. For the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the
beam out of the timber shall answer it.” You may make
money by depraving the public morals, but for all these
things God will bring you into judgment.

PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY.